hi I'm captain Chris and today I have
the privilege to show you one of the
most well maintained and well-kept
yachts on the market today this 2006 42
expressed by Tierra is one of the
cleanest boats that you will find during
my walkthrough I'm going to show you why
you should consider this boat to be your
next shot in 2006 I was fortunate enough
to spend time at Sierra's manufacturing
facility in Holland Michigan during my
visits I gained a good understanding of
the level of superior workmanship
quality materials that they use in the
countless hours that they spend
designing new models this yacht is
actually in better condition than most
new boats that you would see roll off
the line today the only time that this
boat actually sees sunlight is when the
engines are running when she's not in
use whether it's summer or winter she's
kept in a climate-controlled environment
as a captain the helm of the 42 is one
of my favorite boats to operate you have
clear visibility all the way around you
but also the way the dash is laid out it
puts all the instrumentation
strategically placed so that you can use
it when you need it but you also just do
a quick glance down a quick glance back
up you're never taking your eyes off the
road you don't have to look left you
don't have to look right
everything's Center and strategically
placed for you to use the electronics
include two for uno color monitors there
is also a free no autopilot with a
furrow no Rd 30 which is a multi gauge
that provides depth water temperature
and your actual speed there's also an
optional for uno black and white monitor
to the left side that you can display
radar depth or soundings below the
furrow no monitor on the port side you
will find a VHF marine radio by icon the
model is a 602 so the starboard side of
the helm you'll also find an icon M 502
which you can use for a secondary VHF
radio to monitor the station or channel
of your choice
also adorning the helm are the engine
monitors by caterpillar so that you can
monitor everything that's going on with
your C 12 engines while you're underway
these four monitors allow you to monitor
cooling oil pressure and also sound
alarms just in case anything were to
happen one feature I really like on this
42 that you don't find in a lot of other
boats is the low idle switch so when
you're in close quarters around the
harbour you're able to control your rpms
and bring them down to a controllable
speed another thing that you don't see
on a lot of other boats on the market
today is the engine sink so if you're
running twenty-five twenty-six hundred
rpms the engine sink button actually
allows you to synchronize your engines
so if your port side engine is running
twenty five hundred rpms and your
starboard engine is running twenty-six
hundred rpms you're able to hit this
button and bring them both up to a
comparable and even rpm range
completing the helm station is a
double-wide captain's chair which has
power to raise the seat up and down or
forward and back on the port side of the
upper cockpit area is an l-shaped
seating with a high back one great thing
about this is that it is raised so your
guests will also have a great view of
the water
another unique custom feature that you
will find on this tiara that you won't
see on a lot of other tiaras is the
all-black custom gel coat and it's also
included into the windshield frame on
either side of the lower cockpit area
you will find lockable ride lockers on
the transom you have the optional
pullout bench seat below the bench you
will find additional storage moving
forward of the lower cockpit area you
have a bench seat that can accommodate
up to four adults comfortably
the lower cockpit area also has high
gunnels with combing pads on the
starboard side you have a fiberglass
line cord access to the swim platform is
easy through tiaras unique transom door
design the engine compartment can be
accessed through the floor in the upper
cockpit or from the walk-in companionway
once you're in you will find that there
is a pair of c12 Caterpillar diesel
engines the c twelves were an option on
this boat and some say that this is more
power than this boat needs however I say
more horses the batter the engines have
around 300 hours on them and are
equipped with Racor fuel filters high
output 160 amp alternators and have had
the oil changed every 25 to 50 hours
also in the engine compartment you will
find the Kohler gen set which has around
two hundred nine hours ions there is
also raw water intakes trainers and an
optional oil change system to protect
your investment this yacht is equipped
with an automatic fire suppression
system and three automatic bilge pumps
with helm monitors to make cleanup quick
and simple
the entire engine room has been sprayed
with a urethane coating by tiara
as you enter the cabin immediately to
the portside is the compact yeti fishing
galley also to the port side is the
plush designed l-shaped seating dinette
the dinette table is adjustable up and
down and also folds out to expand in the
galley you will find plenty of storage a
stainless steel Panasonic microwave and
a sub-zero drawer style refrigerator and
freezer immediately on the starboard
side you will find access to the first
head the spacious head includes a vaca
flush toilet and a separate shower
on the starboard side you will find
access to the second state run this is
unique to this tiara that you will not
find on a lot of other models as this is
the plan C layout the plants the option
includes two comfortable bunk beds a
flat screen TV and ample storage for
your guests one thing I really like
about tiaras cabins is their teak floors
cabinets doors and walls
access to the master bedroom is on the
forward side of the cockpit the stylish
master stateroom has an oversized queen
berth flat-screen TV and ample storage
this tiara will reach top speeds of 42
miles an hour at 2300 rpms and has a
cruising speed of thirty six point nine
miles an hour at 2,100 rpms as you can
see you're going to be hard-pressed to
try and find a yacht on the market today
that it is clean or as well-maintained
as this one if I was in the market for a
40-something express cruiser this boat
would be at the top of my list
I'm captain Chris and I'll see you on
the water